[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# DFT-1049

**ID:** DFT-1049

**Name:** Keyword searching

**Objective(s):** Locate potentially relevant content

**Description:**

This technique involves searching data in the case for specific strings

**Synonyms:**

string search, 

**Details:**

This search may be conducted live, directly over the data, or from a generated index of strings extracted from the data. The words searched for may be either case-specific, or sometimes case-type specific.

**Subtechniques:**

- [DFT-1125 - Keyword search (live)](DFT-1125.md)
- [DFT-1126 - Keyword search (live) (physical)](DFT-1126.md)
- [DFT-1127 - Keyword search (live) (logical)](DFT-1127.md)
- [DFT-1124 - Keyword search (indexed)](DFT-1124.md)
- [DFT-1121 - Keyword indexing](DFT-1121.md)
- [DFT-1122 - Keyword search (case-type wordlists)](DFT-1122.md)
- [DFT-1123 - Keyword search (case-specific wordlists)](DFT-1123.md)
- [DFT-1151 - Keyword search (over extracted artifacts)](DFT-1151.md)


**Examples:**



**Input Classes:**



**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/KeywordSearchResult](https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/KeywordSearchResult)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [DFW-1053: Incorrect parsing of a supplied regular expression used for keyword searching](DFW-1053.md) _(INCOMP, INAC-EX, INAC-AS)_
    - [DFM-1035: Verification against second tool with known different regex implementation](DFM-1035.md)
    - [DFM-1036: Testing of regular expression component of tool](DFM-1036.md)
- [DFW-1058: Results appear in an ‘artefact’ or ‘result’ but the context, source or provenance of result is unclear](DFW-1058.md) _(MISINT)_
    - [DFM-1037: The context of relevant keyword results are manually checked](DFM-1037.md)
- [DFW-1059: Excessive keyword results returned from case-type wordlists such that careful review of all results is impractical](DFW-1059.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [DFM-1032: Evaluation of the effectiveness of wordlist used for case-type searching](DFM-1032.md)
    - [DFM-1033: Prioritization of search results based on context](DFM-1033.md)
    - [DFM-1038: Word list selected such that a practically reviewable number of results are returned](DFM-1038.md)
- [DFW-1196: One or more files with relevant keyword results are missed since they are not stored as text, e.g. within an image](DFW-1196.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [DFM-1145: Apply OCR to files and search or index resulting text](DFM-1145.md)


**References:**

- Beebe, N.L. and Liu, L., 2014. Ranking algorithms for digital forensic string search hits. Digital Investigation, 11, pp.S124-S132.
- Beebe, N.L. and Clark, J.G., 2007. Digital forensic text string searching: Improving information retrieval effectiveness by thematically clustering search results. Digital investigation, 4, pp.49-54.
- NIST, 2025. Computer forensics tools & techniques catalog: string search, https://toolcatalog.nist.gov/taxonomy/index.php?ff_id=31




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-03-11 23:46:11*
