[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# DFT-1001

**ID:** DFT-1001

**Name:** Triage

**Objective(s):** Prioritize digital evidence sources

**Description:**

Digital forensic triage is a partial forensic examination conducted under (significant) time and resource constraints. (Roussev et al 2013).

**Synonyms:**



**Details:**

Involves the ranking of apprehended digital items in terms of their importance to a case and likelihood that the contain the data require (Wilson-Kovacs 2020). It can involve multiple techniques to identify devices of most interest such as keyword searching, hash matching, media review etc.

**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**



**Input Classes:**

- [https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/DeviceSet](https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/DeviceSet)


**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/PrioritizedDeviceSet](https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/PrioritizedDeviceSet)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [DFW-1001: Excluding a device that contains relevant information](DFW-1001.md) _(INCOMP)_
- [DFW-1002: Use of triage technology results in changes to the target media](DFW-1002.md) _(INAC-ALT)_
    - [DFM-1007: Use hardware write blocker](DFM-1007.md) (links to: [DFT-1012](DFT-1012.md))
    - [DFM-1008: Use software write blocker](DFM-1008.md) (links to: [DFT-1013](DFT-1013.md))
- [DFW-1003: Triage tool applies a simplification that does not correctly represent the meaning of the digital data](DFW-1003.md) _(INAC-EX, INAC-AS, MISINT)_
    - [DFM-1001: Review of all triage results that are relied on during the full digital forensic examination](DFM-1001.md)


**References:**

- Roussev, V., Quates, C. and Martell, R., 2013. Real-time digital forensics and triage. Digital Investigation, 10(2), pp.158-167.
- Wilson-Kovacs, D., 2020. Effective resource management in digital forensics: An exploratory analysis of triage practices in four English constabularies. Policing: an international journal, 43(1), pp.77-90.




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-03-11 23:46:11*
