[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# DFT-1042

**ID:** DFT-1042

**Name:** Hash verification of source device against stored data

**Objective(s):** Read data from digital evidence storage formats

**Description:**

Computing the hash function of the entire contents of a disk, recording it, and then subsequently computing the hash over any disk image created to detect if any content is different (adapted from Lyle 2002)

**Synonyms:**



**Details:**



**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**



**Input Classes:**



**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/hash](https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/hash)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [DFW-1042: Disk image was tampered with, but manipulated to have a collision with original hash](DFW-1042.md) _(INAC-COR)_
    - [DFM-1021: Verify the disk image integrity with multiple hash algorithms e.g. MD5 and SHA1 (Kessler 2016)](DFM-1021.md)
    - [DFM-1022: Restrict access to stored disk images](DFM-1022.md)
    - [DFM-1023: Ensure and check logs of access to stored disk images](DFM-1023.md)
    - [DFM-1070: Ensure hash algorithm(s) used are resistant to collisions through data manipulation](DFM-1070.md)
- [DFW-1124: Failure to compute hash of source device correctly during disk image verification](DFW-1124.md) _(INAC-AS, INAC-COR)_
    - [DFM-1075: Testing programme to validate hashes of data in images is calculated correctly](DFM-1075.md)
    - [DFM-1085: Use of multiple tools to verify disk image hash](DFM-1085.md)
- [DFW-1125: Failure to validate hash properly during disk image verification](DFW-1125.md) _(INAC-AS, INAC-COR)_
    - [DFM-1075: Testing programme to validate hashes of data in images is calculated correctly](DFM-1075.md)
    - [DFM-1085: Use of multiple tools to verify disk image hash](DFM-1085.md)
- [DFW-1126: Failure to validate hash properly allowing an incomplete disk image to present as validated](DFW-1126.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [DFM-1075: Testing programme to validate hashes of data in images is calculated correctly](DFM-1075.md)
    - [DFM-1085: Use of multiple tools to verify disk image hash](DFM-1085.md)
- [DFW-1127: Failure to validate disk image metadata](DFW-1127.md) _(INAC-COR)_
    - [DFM-1076: Testing programme to validate hashes of metadata in images is calculated correctly](DFM-1076.md)
- [DFW-1128: Disk image has been replaced with tampered version along with updated stored hash](DFW-1128.md) _(INAC-COR)_
    - [DFM-1022: Restrict access to stored disk images](DFM-1022.md)
    - [DFM-1023: Ensure and check logs of access to stored disk images](DFM-1023.md)
    - [DFM-1074: Validate image hash against one stored externally to the image in a trusted location.](DFM-1074.md)


**References:**

- Kessler, G.C., 2016. The impact of MD5 file hash collisions on digital forensic imaging. Journal of digital forensics, security and law, 11(4), p.9.
- Kessler GC. The impact of SHA-1 file hash collisions on digital forensic imaging: A follow-up experiment. Journal of Digital Forensics, Security and Law. 2016;11(4):10.
- Lyle, J., 2002. Testing disk imaging tools. DFRWS USA 2002, https://dfrws.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/2002_USA_paper-testing_disk_imaging_tools.pdf




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-03-11 23:46:11*
