[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# DFT-1003

**ID:** DFT-1003

**Name:** Memory imaging

**Objective(s):** Acquire data

**Description:**

Involves creating a copy of the live memory data of a running system

**Synonyms:**

RAM dump, RAM imaging, memory dump, 

**Details:**

Collection of Pagefile may also be useful (Kornblum 2007).

**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**

- FTK Imager


**Input Classes:**

- [https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/Memory](https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/Memory)


**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/Bitstream](https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/Bitstream)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [DFW-1029: Memory smearing may result in pointers being inconsistent within the memory image](DFW-1029.md) _(INAC-AS, INAC-COR)_
    - [DFM-1086: Acquire the parts of memory with interconnected data first, before proceeding with a sequential acquisition.](DFM-1086.md)
    - [DFM-1088: If applicable, leverage hardware virtualization utilities to add a hypervisor to the system, i.e., virtualize the original system. This allows to either freeze the system before the acquisition or, if the system should not be completely frozen, to copy pages before they are modified.](DFM-1088.md)
- [DFW-1030: Loading a memory imaging tool makes changes to the data in memory that is being acquired](DFW-1030.md) _(INAC-ALT)_
    - [DFM-1087: Acquire memory from outside of the target system for example using direct memory access (DMA) devices](DFM-1087.md)
- [DFW-1031: Loading a memory imaging tool overwrites relevant data within memory](DFW-1031.md) _(INCOMP)_
- [DFW-1032: Not all memory is acquired](DFW-1032.md) _(INCOMP)_
- [DFW-1033: Data referenced in memory is located within pagefile or swapfile but is not collected](DFW-1033.md) _(INCOMP)_


**References:**

- Case, A. and Richard III, G. G., 2017. Memory forensics: The path forward. Digital investigation, 20, 23-33.
- Latzo, T., Palutke, R. and Freiling, F., 2019. A universal taxonomy and survey of forensic memory acquisition techniques. Digital Investigation, 28, 56-69.
- Kornblum, J.D., 2007. Using every part of the buffalo in Windows memory analysis. Digital Investigation, 4(1), pp.24-29.




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-03-11 23:46:11*
