[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# DFT-1086

**ID:** DFT-1086

**Name:** Timeline analysis

**Objective(s):** Locate potentially relevant content

**Description:**

The process of searching, filtering, sorting, highlighting, or aggregating timeline entries to determine which are relevant for event reconstruction, or to identify times of interest (adapted from Breitinger et al. 2025)

**Synonyms:**

Temporal Analysis, 

**Details:**

This can involve refinement approaches such as: filtering irrelevant entries, highlighting key entries, or aggregating entries into more meaningful events. This may result in a filtered timeline, or a set of highlighted timeline entries

**Subtechniques:**

- [DFT-1134 - Use time anchors to estimate clock offset](DFT-1134.md)


**Examples:**

- TimeSketch (Berggren et al. 2014)
- PyDFT (Hargreaves & Patterson 2012)


**Input Classes:**



**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/Timeline](https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/Timeline)
- [https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/TimelineEntry](https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/TimelineEntry)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [DFW-1148: Timestamp used is an inaccurate representation of the real world time due to inaccurate system clock](DFW-1148.md) _(INAC-EX)_
    - [DFM-1101: Apply time offset to timestamp](DFM-1101.md) (links to: [DFT-1153](DFT-1153.md))
    - [DFM-1225: Estimate clock offset at a specific point in time using time anchoring](DFM-1225.md) (links to: [DFT-1134](DFT-1134.md))
    - [DFM-1227: Search for indicators of clock tampering](DFM-1227.md) (links to: [DFT-1129](DFT-1129.md))
    - [DFM-1228: Record system clock offset](DFM-1228.md) (links to: [DFT-1111](DFT-1111.md))
- [DFW-1266: Timestamp used is an inaccurate representation of the real world time due to timezone and/or daylight savings](DFW-1266.md) _(INAC-EX)_
    - [DFM-1101: Apply time offset to timestamp](DFM-1101.md) (links to: [DFT-1153](DFT-1153.md))
    - [DFM-1224: Check for location artifacts to infer the time zone at a specific moment](DFM-1224.md)
    - [DFM-1229: Determine last timezone used on system](DFM-1229.md)
    - [DFM-1230: Ensure that daylight savings offsets that are applied to timestamps are correct](DFM-1230.md)


**References:**

- Berggren at al. (2014) TimeSketch, https://timesketch.org
- Breitinger, F., Studiawan, H. and Hargreaves, C., 2025. SoK: Timeline based event reconstruction for digital forensics: Terminology, methodology, and current challenges.
- Casey, E., 2011. Digital evidence and computer crime: Forensic science, computers, and the internet. Academic press, Section 8.1.2
- Hargreaves, C. and Patterson, J., 2012. An automated timeline reconstruction approach for digital forensic investigations. Digital Investigation, 9, pp.S69-S79.




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-03-12 13:47:49*
