[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# DFT-1012

**ID:** DFT-1012

**Name:** Connect storage medium via hardware write blocker

**Objective(s):** Preserve digital evidence

**Description:**

A hardware write blocking device [should] prevent any change to data in the user area of a hard drive while allowing access to all data on a hard drive. (Lyle 2006)

**Synonyms:**



**Details:**

Note that "Sometimes it may be desirable to change a drive configuration to obtain access to otherwise hidden sectors, for example, such as within an HPA (host protected area)." (Lyle 2006) 

**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**



**Input Classes:**

- [https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/StorageMedium](https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/StorageMedium)


**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/WriteProtectedDeviceInterface](https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/WriteProtectedDeviceInterface)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [DFW-1118: Hardware write blocker fails to prevent modifications to the attached device.](DFW-1118.md) _(INAC-COR)_
    - [DFM-1071: Thorough testing of write blocker against multiple targets to ensure that writes are not possible.](DFM-1071.md)
    - [DFM-1072: Regular checks for hardware write blocker firmware updates.](DFM-1072.md)
    - [DFM-1073: Subscription to notifications from write blocker vendor for firmware updates or identified problems.](DFM-1073.md)
- [DFW-1119: Hardware write blocker hides the existence of an HPA.](DFW-1119.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [DFM-1005: Testing to ensure software and hardware setup detects HPAs](DFM-1005.md)
- [DFW-1120: Hardware write blocker hides the existence of an DCO.](DFW-1120.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [DFM-1006: Testing to ensure software and hardware setup detects DCOs](DFM-1006.md)


**References:**

- Lyle, J.R., 2006. A strategy for testing hardware write block devices. digital investigation, 3, pp.3-9.




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-03-11 23:46:11*
